1. Labour act was introduced /founded in
a) 2038
b) 2048
c) 2043
d) 2053

2. Who is the chairperson of Central Labour Advisory Board?
a) Secretory of ministry of labour
b) Specialist of ministry of labour
c) Director General, Department of labour
d) Labour minister/ satate minister

3. In Nepal, which of the following act contains the provisions on health and safety of the workers?
a) contract act
b) industry act
c) labour act
d) all of the above

4. According to labour act considering health condition is
a) first aid after accident
b) safety on inst. and cloth
c) education& training
d) none of the above

5. Maximum working hour for a labour per week should be
a) 42hr
b) 45hr
c) 48hr
d) 53hr

6. Workers are not allowed to work contiunously more than
a) 3hr
b) 5hr
c) 7hr
d) 4hr

7. The space required for living the worker is 15m with considering the maximum height of room above floor level.
a) 3m
b) 3.5m
c) 4m
d) 5 m

8. Which of the following is not concerned with the authority of Engineers?
a) good behaviour with client .
b) conscious with his profession
c) divulge the confidential matter
d) express an opinion on engincering matter

9. Ethics is the science which deals with
a) rightness of professional
b) wrong of professional
c) both (a) and (b) of above
d) none of the above

10. Profession is defined as
a) systematic knowledge through specialized training
b) synonym to job or occupation
c) types of service to needy people
d) all of above

11. The Nepal Engineers' Association was established in
a) 2014 BS
b) 2024 BS
c) 2034 BS
d) 2044 BS

12. The number of members in Nepal Engineers' Association are
a) 5
b) 10
c) 15
d) 20

24. As per the NEC Act, 2055 the name of engineers
a) general, professional, and foreigner
b) special, local and international wngineer
c) civil, electrical and mechanical engineer.
d) computer, electronics and agriculture engineer

25. NEC Regulation, 2057 is effective from
a) 2057/3/8
b) 2057/4/8
c) 2057/5/8
d) 2057/6/8

26. The number of countries in which Nepal Engineering Council has recognized the academic institutions are (September, 2013).
a) 20
b) 30
c) 40
d) 50

27. The Engineering Council members consist of the following members now more
a) 12
b) 14
c) 16
d) 18

28. Which one type of membership is not categorized by NEC
a) general engineer
b) foreign engineer
c) professional engineer
d) supreintendent engineer

29. For the registration of general engineer tha amount of fee required is:
a) NRS 2000/-
b) NRS 3000/-
c) NRS 3500/-
d) NRS 4000/-

30. For the registiration of professional engineer amount fee required is:
a) NRS 5000/-
b) NRS 10000/-
c) NRS 15000/-
d) NRS 20000/-

31. For the registration of foregineer engineers the amount of fee required is:
a) NRS 3000/-
b) NRS 5000/-
c) NRS 10000/-
d) NRS 15000/-

32. If the registration of an engineers is cancealed from NEC his name will be registerered or not if engineer is ready to register his name (CT) -18 NEC, regulution
a) yes
b) no
c) may be
d) all of the above

33. The minimum qulification required for a general engineer is
a) diploma ine engg.
b) bachelor in engg.
c) master in engg.
d) all of the above

34. The minimum qulification required for a professional engineer is
a) diploma in engg.
b) bachelor in engg.
c) master in engg.
d) all of the above

35. The minimum qulification & experience required for the registration of foreigner engineers is
a) bacheclor in engg. and 5 years experience
b) bachelor in engg. and 10yrs experience
c) master in engg. and 5 yrs experience
d) master in engg. and 10yrs experience

36. The registration book for general and professional engineers is written in Nepali language while for foreginer engineer
a) Nepali
b) English
c) Nepali and English
d) French

37. NEC publishes the name of registered engineers each year as well as every forth year. The name of foreigner engineers publish
a) each year
b) every forth year
c) both (a) and (b)
d) none of the above

38. NEC act and its regulation........
a) 55 and 57
b) 54 and 55
c) 55 and 56
d) 57 and 58

39. Nepal engineering council is an autonomous body formed under NEC act in
a) 2056 BS
b) 2055 BS
c) 2054 BS
d) 2053 BS

40. Which of the following category of Engineer is not mentioned in Engineering Council rule
a) Charted Engineer
b) General Engineer
c) Professional Engineer
d) Non-Nepali Regd. Engineer

41. Which one is not concerned with the NEC
a) licensing (Registration) of Engineers
b) accreditation of certificates of academic qualifications
c) recognition of the academic institution
d) authority of opening engineering college

42. Which one is not concerned with NEC
a) acredition of academic certificate
b) authority of opening engineering college.
c) appointment of teacher
d) all of the above

43. NEC does not approach for
a) engineer
b) overseer to engineer
c) minimum degree B.E.
d) all of the above

48. The abbreviation PWD stands for
a) public work directives
b) public work department
c) private work directives
d) private work department

49. Prequilification is not required for any types of firm if the costing to buy an equipment is
a) less than 20 million
b) more than 20 million
c) any amount
d) all of the above

50. The minimum and maximum no. of members in the user's committee should be
a) 15&17
b) 17&19
c) 9& 15
d) 7&9

52. What percent of interest is taken for the advance amount paid to the contractor by employer?
a) 1% of advance amount
b) 2% of advance amount
c) 3% of advance amount
d) none of the above

53. In case of National Competitive Bidding, the prices shall be quoted in
a) Nepalese ruppes
b) American dollar
c) Quatari Riyal
d) Dhiram

54. The employer's have right to
a) accept the bid
b) reject the bid
c) both (a) and (b) of above
d) none of the above

55. The number of members in dispute resolution committee are
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5

56. Engineer shall practices:
a) in favour of client
b) in favour of contractor
c) in favour of him/herself
d) impartial andefficient professional relationship with client, contractor & fellow personnels

57. Engineering ethics is the field of applied ethics and system of moral principles that applt to be
a) practice engineering
b) responsibility engineering
c) management engineering
d) accountability engineering

58. Code of conduct is not related with
a) making the advice of the enginerr impartial
b) building code
c) ensuring the quality of advice
d) making the advice untained by any personal consideration

59. Time extension may need to be granted due to
a) causes by force majeure
b) causes by purchaser
c) both a) and b) of above
d) none of the above

60. What is the abbreviation used for German Technical Co-operation?
a) GTZ
b) GTC
c) GTCO
d) all of the above

61. Which action does not fall under the principle of public procurement
a) procurement should be economic and efficient
b) procurement should be always be lowest cost
c) information and equal opportunities to all
d) procurement process should be transparent

62. The variation exceeding 15 % of the contract amount is approved by
a) gazetted 2nd class
b) gazetted 1st class
c) deaprtment head
d) none of the above

63. To work for survey, design estimate & supervision of a road project, the consultant has to submit
a) technical proposal
b) financial proposal
c) technical and financial proposal
d) none of the above

64. Who is the Chairperson of Project Co-ordination Committee?
a) CDO
b) LDO
c) chairperson of DDC
d) section officer

65. Who is the Chairperson of Construction Material Rate fixation Committee?
a) CDO
b) LDO
c) chairperson of DDC
d) section officer

66. Who is the Chairperson of House Rent Fixation Committee?
a) CDO
b) LDO
c) chairperson of DDC
d) section officer

67. The bid security shall be forfeited if 
a) Bidder withdraws its bid during the period of bid validity specified by the bidder on the Bid form
b) in case of successful bidder, if the bidder fails within the specified time limit either sign the contract or furnish performance security
c) both (a) and (b) of above
d) none of the above

68. Integrity is
a) state or quality of being complete, undivided or unbroken moral soundness, honesty & uprightness
b) the wholeness of deriving quality
c) both a) and b) of above
d) none of the above

69. Code of ethics should be
a) comprehensive and precise
b) measure of integrity perfomance
c) both a) and b) of above
d) none of the above

70. For the supply of any goods as per aggrement, who is responsible for the all taxes, duties, licence fees and other such levies imposed by the GoN.
a) CDO
b) employer
c) supplier
d) consultant

71. The technology applicable for the development in developing countries is
a) appropriate technology
b) high technology
c) low technology
d) information technology

72. "Corrupt practice" means
a) offering/receiving anything to influence the action of public official
b) buy more than one bid document
c) mis representation of facts in order to influence a procurement process
d) all of the above

73. "Fraudulent practice” means
a) offering anything to influence the action of public official
b) buy more than one bid document
c) mis representation of facts in order to influence a procurement process
d) all of the above

74. Which Ministry of Government of Nepal deals with Civil Engineering group of Nepal Engineering service?
a) Ministry of General Administration
b) Ministry of Energy
c) Ministry of Irrigation
d) Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport

75. Professional code of conduct issued by Nepal Engineering Council has
a) 6 articles
b) 7 articles
c) 8 articles
d) 9 articles

76. Fundamental principle of Professional Engineering Ethics is:
a) uploading and advancing Engineering Profession
b) maintain high level of ethical conduct
c) both of the above
d) none of the above

77. For the fulfillment of his/her professional duties Engineer should:
a) Paramount the health of the public
b) paramount the safety of the public .
c) welfare of the public
d) all of the above

78. Five members are elected from Nepal Engineers Association members to represent in Nepal Engineering Council every:
a) 2 years
b) 3 years  
c) 4years
d) 5years

79. Engineers shall build their professional reputation on the ..........of their services and shall not compete unfairly with others.
a) publicity
b) basis
c) merit
d) reputation

80. In general, Nepal Engineering Council mecting per year should be held:
a) 2times
b) 3times
c) 4times
d) 5times

81. Engineering profession needs cooperation with the profession of:
a) medical professional
b) accountant 
c) lawyer
d) all of the above

82. Engineer shall act in such a manner as to uphold and enhance the honor and dignity of engineering profession and shall act with......for bribery, fraud and corruption.
a) a tolerence
b) a pnnchant
c) a predilection
d) zero tolerance

83. The registered engineer in Nepal Engineering Council should have to renew their registration in:
a) every year
b) every two years
c) every four years
d) none of the above

84. Engineer shall not disclose, without...............confidential information concerning the business affairs or technical processes of any present or former client or employer or public body on which the serve:
a) editing
b) getting paid
c) remuneration
d) consent

85. The user's committee method of construction is labour intensive with a cost estimate upto:
a) 4 million
b) 6 million
c) 8 million
d) 10 million

86. Collusive practice" means
a) offering anything to influence the action of public official
b) arrangement between two or more parties to achieve an improper purpose including influencing improperly the action of another party
c) mis representation of facts in order to influence a procurement process
d) all of the above

87. Which one is correct with respect to values, morals and ethics?
a) values are the rules
b) morals are the personal character
c) ethics are professional sstandards
d) all of the above

88. Ethics as a normative science needs code of conduct and guidelines to maintaining high level of standard of good behavior in the society. This is applicable to :
a) Lawers
b) doctors
c) Engineers
d) all of the above

89. Prequalification is done
a) after the invitation of bids
b) before the invitation of bids
c) during the invitation of bids
d) none of the above

90. According to the Public Procurement Regulation, 2064, Who approves the prequalification criteria ? 
a) concerned project chief
b) concerned department chief
c) concerned secretary
d) concerned minister

91. The purpose of bid evaluation is to determine
a) lowest bid
b) responsive bid
c) substantially responsive bid
d) lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid

92. The document announcing to prospective bidder that the owner is ready to receive bids is called
a) notice to bidders 
b) instruction to bidders
c) bill of quantities
d) intension to acceptance

93. The time between ordering of the goods or materials and receiving and placing them into use at the point of need is called
a) order-interval
b) lead time
c) usage time
d) delayed time

94. Engineering shall act in such a manner as to uphold and enhance the honor, and dignity of the engineering profession and shall act with ..... for bribery, fraud, and corruption.
a) a tolerance
b) a penchant
c) zero tolerance
d) a predilection

95. Which is the professional body of architectural and engineering firms is Nepal?
a) Society of Nepalese Architects (SONA)
b) Society of Public Health Engineers (SOPHEN)
c) Sociality of Consulting Engineering and Architectural firms
d) None of above

96. What is EPC contract ?
a) Engineering, Planning and costing
b) Evaluation, Planning and consulting
c) Engineering, procurement and Construction
d) none of above

97. What is the provision in Engineer Council Act and Regulation in Nepal for the punishment na person practices Engineering work without registering into the Nepal Engineering Council?
a) Rs 1000 find or imprisonment of 1 month or both
b) Rs 5000 fine
c) Rs10000 fine
d) Rs3000 fine or Imprisonment of 3 month of both

98. As per the Public Procurement Regulation of Nepal, 2064, What is the maximum consulting services that can be procured directly by a public agency?
a) Rs. 200,000/-
b) Rs. 300,000/-
c) Rs. 500,000/-
d) none of the above

99. As per the public Procurement Regulation, 2064 of Nepal, what is the maximum age for a technical proposal for consulting services ?
a) 90%
b) 80%
c) 70%
d) 60%

100. For the formation of users committee, members are selected
a) among the people of whole district
b) among the beneficiaries of the project
c) by nomination by the chief District officer of the district
d) none of the above

101. Which of the following an engineer should not follow:
a) act as faithful agent for client
b) accept compensation from more than one party for same service without the consent of all
c) indicate client the adverse consequences if judgment is over ruled
d) undertake only these assignments for which he is qualified

102. During construction price variation clause in a contract applies to
a) increase in cost of important materials only
b) variation in the cost of material labour and fuel
c) variation in total cost of the project estimated as lump sum figure
d) the rate of inflation

103. As per the prevalling Public Procurement Acts & Regulations of Nepal, provision of price adjustments is normally to inculpated in civil works contract having project duration ?
a) more than 12 months
b) more than 15 months
c) more than 18 months
d) more than 24 months

104. The sequence of priority in making ethical decision is (from top to bottom)
a) society, profession organization, individual
b) profession, organization, individual, society.
c) individual, organization, profession, society
d) profession, individual, organization society

105. In Nepal, which of the following Act contains the provisions o health and safety of the workers ?
a) contract act
b) Industry act
c) labour act
d) all of the above

106. For procurement of works up to 2 million, buy which of the following method is to be considered?
a) by sealed tender
b) by direct negotiation
c) by bidding
d) by direct labour or direct negotiation

107. Code of conduct defines
a) what should be
b) what should not be
c) what had been
d) what will be

108. Provision for professional code of conduct of engineers in Nepal is made in detail in:
a) NEC Act
b) NEC Rules
c) NEC bye-laws
d) NEC ordience

109. Any Non-Nepali Engineer desiring to work in Nepal may apply for registration under:
a) Category A
b) Category B
c) Category C
d) Category D

110. Procurement of services means: 
a) buying logistics
b) hiring consultant
c) renting house
d) none of the above

111. The general experience required for nomination of chairperson of NEC is:
a) 10 yrs
b) 15 yrs
c) 20 yrs
d) 25 yrs

